
This is a skeleton "Sinatra":http://www.sinatrarb.com app, with modern underpinnings of "haml":https://github.com/nex3/haml, "compass":https://github.com/chriseppstein/compass, and "HTML5 Boilerplate.":http://html5boilerplate.com/ Crafted with love by the "Infochimps team":http://infochimps.org/ -- if you think building apps with Sinatra is easy, wait til you try building on our "fast, versatile API!":http://infochimps.com/apis

h2. Code Organization

h3. /app

Site code. Within app, please find

* *routes*:     Actions. This is where you define your *get* and *post* routes.
* *helpers*:    View helpers. A few form helpers are provided; see @app/views/_demo.haml@ for an example
* *models*:     Domain models. your ActiveMongoSequelMapperDataOnJavaOnRails ODBC frobware ORMs go here.
* *rack*:       Rack middlewares. A 'heartbeat' middleware is included for monitoring -- it captures a basic "Are You There, App? It's Me, Margaret" route and returns @200 OK@.
* *views*:      Page templates and partials (start with '_'). The basic page layout has
  - _html_head_:    html HEAD (title, meta tags, stylesheet links, etc)
  - _topbar_:       Banner, navigation menu, and "Hi, bob!" logged in/out text
  - _flashes_:      success/notice/alert flash messages at the top of the page
  - _footer_:       bottom of page
  - _javascripts_:  javascripts are loaded last on the page, as they should be.
* *views/stylesheets*: compass/sass stylesheets based on the HTML5 boilerplate and grid960 systems.

h3. /config

* *main.yaml*:      Site settings, accessible through the global @Settings@ object, using the "configliere gem":http://github.com/infochimps/configliere
* *bootstrap.rb*:   Uses bundler to freeze your gems into @vendor@ making a production deploy more efficient and predictable. Do _not_ include vendor/ in your git repo.

h3. /lib

Support code.

* *boot.rb*:        Loads the gems and enforces a current @vendor@ directory.
* *app_main.rb*:    Creates the sinatra app and its required gems. See _components_ below.
* *app_compass.rb*: Loads and registers the compass library.

h3. /public

Static assets

* *images*:         favicon, app banner, other images
* *stylesheets*:    stat
* *javascripts*:
  - _jquery.min.js_ The app will try to load from Google's CDN, but will fall back to the version in public/javascripts/jquery.min.js if you're on an airplane or something
  - _hashgrid.js_   Type 'g' to see a grid overlay for CSS debugging in @development@ environment ('g+h' holds it; see hashgrid.js for more).
  - _application_   Put your javascript here.

h3. /vendor

Static copies of gems, created with @config/bootstrap.rb@. Do not include this directory in your git repo.

h3. Components

* *remote api*:
  - "Faraday":https://github.com/technoweenie/faraday
  - "yajl/json_gem":https://github.com/brianmario/yajl-ruby 
* *templating*: Uses the generic @tilt@ templating language, along with
  - "RedCloth":https://github.com/jgarber/redcloth.git for textile
  - "erubis":https://github.com/genki/erubis for ERB templating
  - "haml":https://github.com/nex3/haml for HAML
* *stylesheets*: Uses "compass":https://github.com/chriseppstein/compass along with
  - the "compass 960.gs plugin":https://github.com/chriseppstein/compass-960-plugin
  - "HTML5 Boilerplate":https://github.com/sporkd/compass-html5-boilerplate compass version
* *utils*:
  - "gorillib":https://github.com/infochimps/gorillib, a restrained lightweight subset of active_support. To use extlib or active_support, modify @lib/app_main.rb@.
  - "configliere":https://github.com/infochimps/configliere, for configuration. 
